<!--Table of Contents-->
<div style="clear: right; margin-bottom: .5em; float: right; padding: .5em 0 .8em 1.4em; background: none; width: auto;">{{TOC Limit|3}}</div>

{{main|[[User:Samheart564/Guide_Hub|Sam Guide Compendium]]}}

This list compiles all my ship evaluations (Samvaluations), ever since I started doing them. <br>

'''NOTE: MOST DESCRIPTIONS HAVEN'T BEEN UPDATED SINCE THAT SHIP'S EVENT. IF THERE ARE ANY MISTAKES/CONCERNS/ETC. CONTACT ME [[#Credits|HERE]] SO I CAN ADDRESS THEM ASAP!'''

== Ships ==
=== Event Ships ===
{|class="azltable sortable mw-collapsible" style="width:100%; text-align:center"
 |+ Samvaluation for Ships
 ! style="width:15%"|Ship
 ! class="unsortable"|Samvaluation
 |-
 <!-- Northern Overture -->
 |{{IconHover|Sovetskaya Rossiya|5}}<br>[[Sovetskaya Rossiya]]
 |Rossiya is a flagship-oriented BB with meh stats and skills. Her self-buff is only for the first 2 battles, which is not relevant when mobbing. Her barrage has high raw damage but a really bad pattern and average proc rate. Overall, she is a meh ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chapayev|5}}<br>[[Chapayev]]
 |Chapayev is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is pretty good with MGM+1, her barrages, and her self-buffs. Her bulk is also good. Overall, she is a great ship, but a bit redundant due to all the good CLs that came out in the past year.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Tashkent|5}}<br>[[Tashkent]]
 |Tashkent is a damage-oriented DD with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is pretty good against Light Armor enemies and mobbing despite having 1 MGM, due to her summon and her barrage. Her torpedo damage is pretty bad, limiting her potential against Medium and Heavy armor enemies. In addition, she wants to use a Northern Parliament Main Gun due to her skill 2. Overall, she is a great ship, but a bit redundant due to the existance of Starter DDs.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Avrora|5}}<br>[[Avrora]]
 |Avrora is a support-oriented CL with meh stats and great skills. Her stats and personal damage are mediocre, but her buff makes up for it by buffing your Vanguard Fleet's damage. Overall, she is a great ship provided her buff is fully utilized.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Gangut|4}}<br>[[Hibiki]]
 |Gangut is an off-flag oriented BB with meh stats and skills. When equipped with her signiture Main Gun, she gains cooldown reduction which is nice when mobbing but still worse than other easily accessible options. Against bosses, she is also outclassed by other easily accessible options. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Grozny|4}}<br>[[Shirayuki]]
 |Grozny is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Minsk|4}}<br>[[Shirayuki]]
 |Minsk is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-

 <!-- Microlayer Medley -->
 |{{IconHover|Intrepid|5}}
 |Intrepid is a damage-oriented CV with good stats and skills. She has a good loadout (8 planes) and an on-strike barrage; however, the barrage is nothing special compared to other recently released CVs in 2023. She also doesn't have as many self-buffs compared to the top of her hull. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Reno|5}}
 |Reno is an AA-oriented CL with meh stats and skills. Her AA output is really high, but not good enough to AA carry. Her personal damage and bulk are both average at best. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bremerton|5}}
 |Bremerton is a mob-tank oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her bulk is good enough to mob-tank most content due to her self-buffs. Her personal damage is also good due to her Skill 1 as well. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Ingraham|5}}
 |Ingraham is a support-oriented DD with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is good, but not amazing. Her support is also good at keeping your Vanguard Fleet healthy. Her AA is good, but not enough to AA carry an entire fleet. There is no need to focus +TRP auxiliary equipment to increase her AA self-buff. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Cooper|4}}
 |Cooper attempts to be an ASW-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Nautilus|4}}
 |Nautilus is a damage-oriented SS with great stats and skills. Her gimmick of resurfacing for a bit before diving back against is not useful, and can make her die earlier than expected. However, her personal damage is still pretty good, making her worth using as a 3rd SS in a USS composition, assuming you have nobody better. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bluegill|4}}
 |Bluegill is a SS with meh stats and skills. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Casablanca|3}}
 |Casablanca is a support-oriented CVL with meh stats and great skills. Her personal damage is really bad; however she does have fast airstrikes to help mitigate it. Her fleet support for other CV / CVLs is really good, however. Overall, she is a good ship; outclassed by <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/Independence" title="Independence">Independence (Retrofit)</a>.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Marblehead|3}}
 |Marblehead is a damage-oriented CL with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
<!-- Skybound Oratorio -->
 |{{IconHover|Jeanne d'Arc|5}}
 |Jeanne d'Arc is a support-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is very mediocre at best, but she makes up for it with her Vanguard Fleet supportive capabilities. Against most bosses, her prescence can increase the survaviblity of your Vanguard Fleet by a sizable amount. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Richelieu|5}}
 |Richelieu is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. She buffs all French ships in your fleet, however she is fine without buffing anyone but herself. Her barrage is alright, and her preload helps frontload her damage output. Only MGM+1 hurts her in longer fights. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Algérie|5}}
 |Algérie is a damage-oriented CA with great stats and meh skills. Her damage output is mediocre due to only 1 MGM and meh barrage damage. Her bulk is fine, but not enough to tank any hard content reliably. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Le Terrible|5}}
 |Le Terrible is a damage-oriented DD with great stats and skills. Her damage is good due to her multiple skill barrages and self-buffs. She is ideally sortied as the only DD in your vanguard for the RLD and DMG reduction buffs. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Béarn|4}}
 |Béarn is a damage-oriented CVL with meh stats and skills. Can equip a secondary gun, which helps with interception. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|La Galissonnière|4}}
 |La Galissonniére is a damage-oriented CL with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Maillé Brézé|4}}
 |Maillé Brézé is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Vauquelin|4}}
 |Vauquelin is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
<!-- Aurora Noctis Rerun -->
 |{{IconHover|Howe|5}}
 |Howe is an off-flag oriented BB with great stats and skills. She has a 100% chance timed barrage that does decent damage, while also providing minor RLD support to herself and other BB/BC/BBVs. She is ideally sortied to make full use of her Skill 2 self-buffs; however, that is not fully necessary for her to be good. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Perseus|5}}
 |Perseus is a healer oriented CVL with meh stats and great skills. Her damage is heavily frontloaded due to 2 preloaded airstrikes at the start of the battle. Her personal damage is really bad due to low efficiencies, AVI stat, and 6 planes. In addition, she contributes nothing else to the battle outside of her frontloaded damage and healing due to her airstrikes taking almost twice as long as other CVLs. However, her healing is really good, and heals both the Vanguard and Main Fleets. Her Skill 2 barrage does not have enough damage to subvert her deficiencies. Overall, she is an amazing healer, but redundant due to the existance of Unicorn (Retrofit).
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hermione|5}}
 |Hermione is a damage-oriented CL with meh stats and skills. Her personal damage is mediocre due to 1 MGM and decent barrages. self-buffs. She ideally is not sortied as the Main Tank due to her Skill 2 self-buffs. Overall, she is a mediocre ship.Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Eagle|4}}
 |Eagle is a damage-oriented CVL with meh stats and skills. Can equip a secondary gun, which helps with interception. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Valiant|4}}
 |Valiant is a damage-oriented BB with meh stats and skills. Her personal damage is mediocre due to a 50% barrage chance, and average Main Gun efficiencies and stats. She offers some fleet support due to a spoecial Armor Break, but that is not worth using her over a better ship that contributes more to the battle. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Icarus|4}}
 |Icarus is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-


<!-- Dreamwaker's Butterfly Rerun -->
 |{{IconHover|Shinano|6}}<br>[[Shinano]]
 |Shinano is an damage-oriented CV with 9 planes, great loadout, high stats/efficiencies, and great skills. She ideally is sortied with 2 other IJN ships for her self-buffs. Her debuffs to enemies are nice as fleet support. Overall, she is an amazing ship, and can fit in any fleet very well.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kii|5}}<br>[[Kii]]
 |Kii is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. Her timed barrage means that her damage output is staggered. She is ideally sortied with 2 other IJN ships for her buffs. Uniquely, she also buffs the Torpedo stat from the Main fleet, however that has situational usage. Overall she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Suzutsuki|5}}<br>[[Suzutsuki]]
 |Suzutsuki is a damage-oriented DD with great stats, skills, and barrages, and solid efficiencies. She has MGM+1, alongside solid Torpedo stat/efficiency, giving her great mixed damage. Her self-heal adds to her bulk as well. Smokescreen is a bit situational, but is always nice when it works. Overall she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kashino|4}}<br>[[Kashino]]
 |Has solid bulk, but lack of damage output hurts her a lot. Her potential support capabiliities from Cargo gear are also lackluster. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chiyoda|4}}<br>[[Chiyoda]]
 |She has subpar stats and unreliable skills, along with only 6 planes. Collection only. Gives +1 CV RLD Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chitose|4}}<br>[[Chitose]]
 |She has subpar stats and unreliable skills, along with only 6 planes. Collection only. Gives +1 CV AVI Fleet Technology.
 |-

<!-- Empyreal Tragicomedy -->
 |{{IconHover|Formidable|5}}
 |Formidable is a support / damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. As a support, she offers a timestop that other ships can take advantage of to improve their geometric accuracy against bosses. As a damage-dealer, when equipped with the <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/Fairey_Albacore" title="Fairey Albacore">Fairey Albacore</a> Torpedo Bomber, she has great screen-wide barrages on airstrike, which along with her loadout help clear out enemy waves well. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Littorio|5}}
 |Littorio is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. She doesn't have many self-buffs compared to other BBs, and 130% Main Gun efficiency hinders her shelling damage. Her barrage is still pretty good, however. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Pola|5}}
 |Pola is a mob-tank oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is good due to MGM+1 CA guns, plus her skill barrages. Her bulk is also good for mobbing due to her self-buffs. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Zara|5}}
 |Zara is a mob-tank oriented CA with great stats and good skills. Her personal damage is mediocre since outside of her MGM+1 she has no good skill barrages. Her bulk is decent due to her shields. Her skill 2 doesn't affect her Main Gun choices against enemies. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Giulio Cesare|4}}
 |Giulio Cesare is an off-flag oriented BB with bad stats and skills. Collection only. Gives +1 BB ACC Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Carabiniere|4}}
 |Carabiniere is a damage-oriented DD with meh stats and skills. Her personal damage is mediocre, and her support, while nice, is not worth using her over options that do more damage. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Vincenzo Gioberti|4}}
 |Icarus is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Conte di Cavour|3}}
 |Conte di Cavour is an off-flag oriented BB with bad stats and skills. Her unique Augment Module is an improvement over her base form, but it is not enough to save her. Collection only. Gives +1 BB RLD Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Trento|3}}
 |Trento is a damage-oriented CA with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 

 <!-- Crescendo of Polaris -->
 |{{IconHover|Akagi µ|5}}
 |Akagi µ is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. Her first-strike cooldown reduction allows her to be offset from traditional BBs and CVs. She is ideally sortied with other µ ships for her self-buffs. Overall, she is a great ship. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Gascogne µ|5}}
 |Gascogne µ is an off-flag oriented BB with great stats and meh skills. Due to her ammo changing abilities, you want to equip a BB gun with high raw damage. Her barrages are meh, and her ammo change doesn't allow her to specialize for bosses. Only MGM+1 hurts her damage output compared to other BBs. Her first shot cooldown reduction is nice for desyncing, but not relevant for bosses. Overall she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Admiral Hipper µ|4}}
 |Admiral Hipper µ is a tank-oriented CA with good stats but bad skills. Her bulk is good, but her bad personal damage doesn't justify using her over other options. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Cleveland µ|4}}
 |Cleveland µ is a damage-oriented CL with meh stats and bad skills. The ammo change to µ Purple actively hinders her damage output, since the armor modifiers are worse than typical CL HE guns. In addition, she lacks any self buffs to damaging stats. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Sheffield µ|4}}
 |Sheffield µ is a damage-oriented CL with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-

 <!-- Universe in Unison -->
 |{{IconHover|Dido µ|5}}
 |Dido µ is an AA-oriented CL with good stats and skills. Her AA is really high, but not enough to act as an AA carry. Her personal damage is good due to her skill barrages. Overall, she is a good ship. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Illustrious µ|5}}
 |Illustrious µ is a damage-oriented CV with good stats and skills. Her damage is heavily skewed towards Light and Medium armor due to possessing 6 Fighters and a Rocket skill barrage. Her support is nice, but unreliable due to the random chance involved. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Le Malin µ|5}}
 |Le Malin µ is a damage-oriented DD with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is good due to multiple, reliable skill barrages. Her bulk is also pretty good due to multiple self-buffs and small heals throughout her kit. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Roon µ|5}}
 |Roon µ is a tank-oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is really good due to MGM+1 CA guns and good skill barrages. Her support is a bit unreliable due to its awkward timing and pattern, but it is nice to have. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Taihou µ|5}}
 |Taihou µ is a damage-oriented CV with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is good due to multiple skill barrages; however her reliance on other µ ships for self-buffs hinders her damage potential. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Tashkent µ|5}}
 |Tashkent µ is a damage-oriented DD with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is pretty good due to multiple skill barrages, and her summon makes up for only having 1 MGM. Her self-buffs are pretty bad outside of the summon, however. Overall, she is a good ship
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Albacore µ|4}}
 |Albacore µ is a damage-oriented SS with meh stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Baltimore µ|4}}
 |Baltimore µ is a damage-oriented CA with meh stats and skills. Her personal damage is mediocre due to a lack of good self-buffs, and she doesn't have any relevant fleet-wide support. Collection only.
 |-
<!-- Inverted Orthant -->
 |{{IconHover|Peter Strasser|5}}
 |Peter Strasser is a damage-oriented CV with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is solid due to good stats and an on-strike barrage, but it is nothing exceptional. Her chance to set enemy speed to 0 is too random to take advantage of, but it is nice to have. She is ideally sortied with other KMS CVs to take advantage of the cooldown reduction she provides. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Prinz Heinrich|5}}
 |Prinz Heinrich is a tank-oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is great due to her skill barrages and high FP stat and efficiencies. She can equip the Triple 283mm CB gun to help deal with shielded enemies. Her bulk is also good enough to Main Tank most content in the game. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|U-37|5}}
 |U-37 is a damage-oriented SS with amazing stats and skills. Her personal damage is among the top of SS, and her reload requirements allow her to equip a Mark 20 "Bidder" without needing a Snorkel. In addition, she also gains self-buffs when paired with other KMS SS. Overall, she is an amazing SS option.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Nürnberg|4}}
 |Nürnberg is an AA-oriented CL with meh stats and skills. Her AA is good but not high enough to AA carry as a dedicated AA unit. Her personal damage is bad, and her SS EXP buff is situational at best, since calling in SS is unreliable on auto-battle. Overall, she is a meh ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Weser|4}}
 |Weser is a damage-oriented CVL with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Z24|4}}
 |Z24 is a damage-oriented DD with meh stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Z28|4}}
 |Z28 is a damage-oriented DD with meh stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-


 <!-- Khorovod of Dawn's Rime -->
 |{{IconHover|Kirov|5}}
 |Kirov is a damage-oriented CL with good stats and great skills. Her personal damage is pretty good due to multiple skill barrages and her increased Main Gun range. Her bulk is also decent. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Sovetskaya Belorussiya|5}}
 |Sovetskaya Belorussiya is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. Her barrage is strong, and has a good pattern; although, it is a bit farther back than normal. She also has multiple heals for self-sutain over the course of fights, and even helps your Vanguard Fleet a little bit as well. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Tallinn|5}}
 |Tallinn is a tank-oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is alright due to her self-buffs and barrages, but it is still on the lower end of tank damage. Her bulk is really high due to her stats and barrier, enabling her to Main Tank any content with no issues. She is ideally equipped with a Northern Parliament or Iron Blood Main Gun for her skill. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Gremyashchy|4}}
 |Gremyashchy is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Gromky|4}}
 |Gromky is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Murmansk|4}}
 |Murmansk is a damage-oriented CL with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Pamiat Merkuria|5||Kai}}
 |Pamiat Merkuria is a tank-oriented CL with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is decent due to MGM+1 DD guns and a solid barrage. Her bulk is really high, especially when RNG rolls her way. Due to the RNG nature of her bulk, her tanking ability, esepcially when bossing, can be in doubt. Overall, she is a great ship. 
 |-

<!-- Daedalian Hymn -->
 |{{IconHover|Aquila|5}}
 |Aquila is a damage / support oriented CV with great stats and skills. Her per-strike damage is good due to her 8 plane loadout and on-strike barrage. Depending on the equip in her 2nd slot, she can change modes between damage and support. In damage mode, she gains a preload and multiple offensive buffs. In support mode, she grants healing and shield support for the fleet. Overall, she is a great ship regardless of what mode she is in. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Duca degli Abruzzi|5}}
 |Duca degli Abruzzi is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is very balanced due to decent Main Guns, barrages, and her great torpedo damage. Her bulk is also pretty good as well due to her stats, and her skill 2 adds to it further. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Vittorio Veneto|5}}
 |Vittorio Veneto is an off-flag oriented BB with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is high due to multiple self-buffs, good efficiencies, and a great timed barrage. She can reduce her first Main Gun salvo based on the number of other RN ships in the fleet, but that is not necessary for her to be good. The buff from using AP Guns or having RN ships from her skill 3 is nice, but not necessary for her to be good. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Libeccio|4}}
 |Libeccio is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Maestrale|4}}
 |Maestrale is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Nicoloso da Recco|4}}
 |Nicoloso da Recco is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Torricelli|4}}
 |Torricelli is a damage-oriented SS with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-


<!-- Mirror Involution -->
 |{{IconHover|New Jersey|6}}
 |New Jersey is an off-flag oriented BB with amazing stats and skills. Her shelling damage is really high, and combined with a great barrage makes her personal damage really high. Her self-buffs (especially the Main Gun Spread reduction) are also really good, further boosting her damage. Her crossfleet skill barrage is nice, and the buff is good when using USS CVs in the other fleet. Overall, she is an amazing ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|San Francisco|5}}
 |San Francisco is a versatile CA with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is pretty good due to her stats, barrages, and MGM+1, and it is further amplified when in the Off-Tank position. As a Main Tank, she gains damage reduction to further amplify her bulk. In the Middle position, she gives your Vanguard a heal once per battle. As an Off-Tank, she further amplifies the damage your Vanguard Fleet does. Overall, she is a great ship, regardless of which mode she is in.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Ticonderoga|5}}
 |Ticonderoga is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is pretty good due to 8 planes and an on-strike barrage that can inflict DoT. She also has great bulk with damage mitigation for her first few instances of damage taken, as well as a small shield for your Vanguard. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Boise|4}}
 |Boise is a damage-oriented CL with average stats and skills. Her personal damage is good with MGM+1 CL guns and a barrage. Her self-buffs are nothing special, however. Overall, she is an alright ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Morrison|4}}
 |Morrison is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Independence|5||Kai}}
 |Independence (Retrofit) is a support-oriented CV with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is really good due to an 8 plane loadaout and an on-strike barrage. She also buffs CVs both inside and outside of your fleet, and gets a self-cooldown reduction on her first airstrike. Overall, she is an amazing CV. 
 |-
 
 |{{IconHover|Emden|5}}<br>[[Emden]]
 |Emden is a top CL. She has top CL damage due to her strong barrages and guns, plus an interesting torpedo gimmick. CL gun mode has more damage, but DD gun mode has slightly less damage for solid utility. Either mode works extremely well. Bulk is average, but DD gun mode's heal helps. Overall, she is VERY good. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Lützow|5}}<br>[[Lützow]]
 |Lützow is a solid BC, with solid stats and an alright barrage. Has a meh debuff, and is otherwise very "traditional." Overall, seems solid; nothing exceptional, but not awful. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Seydlitz|5}}<br>[[Seydlitz]]
 |Seydlitz is a great BC. She can off-flag if needed. You want her to have a high % of health as possible, although the damage redistribution goes against that. Main gun salvo reduction is great in mobbing, and she can give other SMS BB/BC the same reduction. Damage output is also fairly solid, making her great in bosses. Overall seems great; nothing exceptional, but she has great damage and the first salvo cooldown reduction. Typical event SSR. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Elbing|4}}<br>[[Elbing]]
 |What did you expect from a purple torpedo focused CL with meh stats, skills, and efficiencies? She's bad, just like a typical event purple. Waifu only. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Thüringen|4}}<br>[[Thüringen]]
 |Stats are meh, and barrage pattern is not that great. Debuff is alright, but still worse than other BB support like Duke of York. She's bad, but it could be worse. Waifu only. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Yorck|4}}<br>[[Yorck]]
 |Has meh bulk for a tank, but damage is lacking. Worse than Portland Kai as a tank, therefore not really worth using outside waifu. She's bad, but it could be worse. Waifu only. '''No ghost AA gun, meaning she doesn't drag your fleet down in AA heavy worlds.'''
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Vanguard|6}}<br>[[Vanguard]]
 |Vanguard is worthy of being a UR. Stats are great, and skills are top tier. Her AA is very high, allowing her to help the vanguard in plane-heavy areas situationally. Her debuffs are amazing, allowing the entire fleet to take advantage of them. Secondary crit rate buff looks nice on paper but is useless outside W14.Has crossfleet barrage and buff to HMS. You want to use an HMS equipment on her, which is most likely going to be STAAG and/or Triple 152 Mk XXV (Neptune Gun).
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Indomitable|5}}<br>[[Indomitable]]
 |Indomitable is a solid CV. Stats and skills are good. Don't pair her with Prince of Wales or Repulse ([[Repulse META]] is fine, but not necessary!), and ideally she is sortied without her fellow Illustrious-class sisters as well. Her 6 fighter 2 torpedo bomber loadout is very nice against light and medium armor targets when equipped with the BF-109G, and has a nice balance of damage and AA with a traditional fighter. Barrages add more free damage as well. Overall she's solid; not top tier but not bad.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Jervis|5}}<br>[[Jervis]]
 |Jervis is a solid DD. Stats are good, but the skills are a mixed bag. The AoA barrage is good, making her damage output solid. The heal is nice, however it's not enough to support an entire fleet on its own. The HMS support is practically useless, and the "only in DD/CL fleet" buff is W14 specific. She is decently tanky in the tank slot; however, with her low HP her bulk against bosses is in doubt. Overall she's solid; not top tier, but not bad.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Unicorn|5||Kai}}<br>[[Unicorn|Unicorn (Retrofit)]]
 |Unicorn Retrofit solidifies herself as a top healer in the game. Over longer (> ~40s) battles she even beats Perseus. Gains a preload which helps a lot with mobbing, and also gains backline healing capabilities as well.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Revenge|4}}<br>[[Revenge]]
 |Revenge is a bad BB. Her stats are bad compared to gold BBs, and the skills don't make up for them. Barrage seems meh, the armor break is alright but not worth sacrificing a BB slot for, and the second skill in its entirety is purely a gimmick. Collection tier only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bellona|4}}<br>[[Bellona]]
 |Bellona is an alright CL. Bulk is alright, AA is pretty high but not carry level, but her damage output is bad. The only redeeming factor about her is the Air Raid Assistance CV buff. HMS buff is not worth for the most part due to how situational and bad it is. Overall, she is alright as a carrier buffer, but useless outside of that.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Little Cheshire|4}}<br>[[Little Cheshire]]
 |Little Cheshire is just Isuzu reincarnated. Bulk and surface damage output are alright, and the AA output remains close to normal Cheshire. Has a self-heal skill as well. Overall she's one of the better loli ships, but outside AA heavy areas she is bad. Use situationally in plane-heavy areas.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Memphis META|4}}<br>[[Memphis META]]
 |Memphis META is bad, as expected of a purple META. Stats are okay, but damage is lackluster, and skills are bad. The slow is gimmicky, as well as the damage boost to certain factions. The +EVA to some meta ships is a joke since we only had 1 META vanguard before Memphis META (Helena META). Collection tier only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Little Prinz Eugen|4}}<br>[[Little Prinz Eugen]]
 |Little Eugen is basically a normal Eugen sidegrade. Since normal Eugen is only tank and nothing else, Little Eugen falls into the same category. Waifu Protecc only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Repulse META|5}}<br>[[Repulse META]]
 |Repulse META seems solid. Stats are alright, but barrages loook very good and more than make up for them. She's great, very worthy of being an SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Joffre|5}}<br>[[Joffre]]
 |Joffre is a solid CV with great stats and efficiencies. Barrages are great; she wants to be in the bottom position for the torpedo bomber barrage. Solid CV, worthy of being an event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|L'Indomptable|5}}<br>[[L'Indomptable]]
 |L'Indomptable is a solid DD with great FP and Main Gun Efficiency. Her Torpedo Stat and Torpedo Efficiency sucks, but her skills bring them back up to respectable levels. Skill 2 is practically useless in PvE (since if ships are almost dying something has gone wrong), and is mainly for stall memeing. Barrages are solid, and work great with AoA shot reduction. Solid DD, worthy of being an event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Enterprise (Royal Navy)|4}}<br>[[Enterprise (Royal Navy)]]
 |What did you expect from a purple torpedo focused CL with meh Stats, Skills, and Efficiencies? Her saving grace is that her AoA barrage is alright. She's bad, just like a typical event purple. Waifu only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Plymouth|6}}<br>[[Plymouth]]
 |Plymouth is a damage-oriented CL with high stats, great bulk, great skills, and an amazing loadout. She has MGM+2 CL guns with two strong barrages, making her a top overall damage vanguard in the entire game. Her skills give your flagship a huge damage boost as well. As one of the highest damage vanguard ships in the game, she is very worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Brest|6}}<br>[[Brest]]
 |Brest is an extremely tanky CB with great stats and skills. Her damage output is around the other CBs, but is still high in the grand scheme of tanks. She has a heal that can support the fleet, but it shouldn't be the only heal used. Typical CB performance means she is very worth getting, but not high priority if you have the other 3 already.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chkalov|5}}<br>[[Chkalov]] (FS5)
 |Chikalov is a damage-oriented CV with high stats, solid skills, and a solid loadout. Her airstrike barrage is very strong (especially when enhanced), and her debuff barrage, despite the bullets being weak, has a good enough pattern to proc it reliably. Her slow is nice, but the short duration makes it hard to sync with other ships in the same fleet. Lack of a Fighter hurts her in AA areas unless you have an intercept-capable Torpedo Bomber. Overall, she is an amazing CV. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Prinz Rupprecht|5}}<br>[[Prinz Rupprecht]] (FS5)
 |Prinz Rupprecht is a Flagship BC with solid stats and skills. Her barrage is solid, and has a high proc chance. She has a long range ghost gun for more free damage, as well as a great torpedo barrage off of it. She ideally prefers to be flagship due to her barrage pattern. Her heal is irrelevant when paired with a good healer like Unicorn. Overall, she is a great BB/BC option.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Harbin|5}}<br>[[Harbin]] (FS5)
 |Harbin is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and amazing skills. She has great balanced damage from her MGM+1 DD guns, double Torpedo Launches, and double solid barrages. Her bulk is a bit on the frailer side, but her smokescreens help mitogate it and offer decent fleet support as well. Overall, she is an amazing CL.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Shinano|6}}<br>[[Shinano]]
 |Shinano is an damage-oriented CV with 9 planes, great loadout, high stats/efficiencies, and great skills. She ideally is sortied with 2 other IJN ships for her self-buffs. She works amazingly in any fleet. Worthy of being a UR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kii|5}}<br>[[Kii]]
 |Kii is a flagship BB with great stats, skills, barrage, and efficiencies. Her timed barrage means that her damage output is staggered. She is ideally sortied with 2 other IJN ships for her buffs. Uniquely, she also buffs the Torpedo stat from the Main fleet. Overall she is a great ship, worthy of being an event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Suzutsuki|5}}<br>[[Suzutsuki]]
 |Suzutsuki is a gunboat DD with great stats, skills, and barrages, and solid efficiencies. She has MGM+1, alongside solid Torpedo stat/efficiency, giving her great mixed damage. Her self-heal adds to her bulk as well. Smokescreen is a bit situational, but is always nice when it works. Overall she is a great ship, worthy of being an event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kashino|4}}<br>[[Kashino]]
 |Has solid bulk, but lack of damage output hurts her a lot. Her potential support capabiliities from Cargo gear are also lackluster. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chiyoda|4}}<br>[[Chiyoda]]
 |She has subpar stats and unreliable skills, along with only 6 planes. Collection only. Gives +1 CV RLD Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chitose|4}}<br>[[Chitose]]
 |She has subpar stats and unreliable skills, along with only 6 planes. Collection only. Gives +1 CV AVI Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Baltimore|5}}<br>[[Baltimore]]
 |Great damage-oriented CA. She modifies her ammo type, so she prefers guns with the highest raw damage. Can be sortied with or without USS carriers.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Alabama|5}}<br>[[Alabama]]
 |Great flagship BB. Her barrage is strong and timed, making her damage uptime high. She is best used in a mobbing fleet due to her gaining more buffs as the sortie progresses.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Cavalla|5}}<br>[[Cavalla]]
 |Great Submarine. Prefers to be paired with Albacore ([[Merit Shop]]) and/or Archerfish ([[Mirror Involution]]) for best results.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Allen M. Sumner|5}}<br>[[Allen M. Sumner]]
 |Great damage-oriented DD. She has higher AA than most ships, but it is not AA-carry level. She has great damage due to her stats, efficiencies, and barrages, giving her a well-rounded kit suitable for any fleet.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Birmingham|4}}<br>[[Birmingham]]
 |Good damage-oriented CL. She is relatively bulky for her class, and has good damage to go along with it.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Stephen Potter|4}}<br>[[Stephen Potter]]
 |Good support-oriented DD. Her first skill is alright, but not amazing. She should only be used when supporting carriers; outside of that niche she is not worth using.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bataan|4}}<br>[[Bataan]]
 |Good CVL. She has high efficiency planes, and a solid barrage, but only 6 total planes hinder her. Gives +1 CV RLD Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|San Juan|3}}<br>[[San Juan]]
 |Has great AA, but everything else about her is subpar at best. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Aylwin|3}}<br>[[Aylwin]]
 |Not good. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Roma|5}}<br>[[Roma]]
 |Roma is a great BB, with great stats and skills. Barrage is solid, and doesn't require flagship position; the failed proc benefits are decent as well. She is guarenteed max critical damage/rate stacks at 30s into the battle, which is early enough to be relevant especially versus a boss. The sonar part of her skill is useless. The fast load from sortieing with 3 Italians is nice if you can fulfil the requirements, but it is not mandatory for her to be great. Overall, she is a great off-flag BB; typical event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Giuseppe Garibaldi|5}}<br>[[Giuseppe Garibaldi]]
 |Giuseppe is a solid CL, with solid stats and skills. Her skills give her great self-buffs, although some expire at 60s into the battle and others only activate 20s in. Due to only 1 MGM, she is torpedo and barrage oriented for her damage output. The instant AoA when sortied with 3 Italians is nice if you can fulfil the requirements, but is not mandatory.Overall seems great, but is nothing exceptional; typical event SR
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Leonardo da Vinci|5}}<br>[[Leonardo da Vinci]]
 |Leonardo is a great SS, with high TRP and OXY. Her OXY and RLD are high enough to use a Mark 20 "Bidder" without a Snorkel. Due to her first skill, using one of [[Twin_135mm_(Model_1938)#Type_2-0|this (from Virtual Tower)]], or [[Twin_120mm_(Model_1936)#Type_3-0|this (from Empyreal Tragicomedy B1)]] is highly recommended. Remember to check Depot --> Craft menu as well. Her summon and barrages are nice added bonuses as well. Her third skill is situational at best, but is always nice to have. Overall, she is a very good SS, and is a great 3rd ship in the USS Submarine Fleet.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Alfredo Oriani|4}}<br>[[Alfredo Oriani]]
 |Alfredo is a bad DD with alright FP, but meh/bad other stats. Her efficiencies, coupled with only 1 MGM, make her damage output bad as well. The flares are situational at best, and so is the smokescreen. Overall, she is bad; collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bolzano|4}}<br>[[Bolzano]]
 |Bolzano is a bad CA with meh/bad stats. Her skills improve her bulk a decent bit, but she is still not tanky enough to main tank most content. Her damage ouput is average at best as well. Overall, she is bad; collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Emanuele Pessagno|4}}<br>[[Emanuele Pessagno]]
 |Emanuele Pessagno is a bad DD with alright FP, but meh/bad other stats. Her skills are decent, and her high main gun efficiency give her decent damage despite 1 MGM. The second skill is all situational at best. Overall she is bad, but it could be worse; collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Trento META|4}}<br>[[Trento META]]
 |Trento has meh stats, bad bulk, only 1 MGM, and a barrage that isn't good enough to take her over the hump. Overall, she is bad; collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Brünhilde|5}}<br>[[Brünhilde]]
 |Brünhilde is a great off-flag BC. She has great damage output due to her solid stats and double barrages. She has multiple forms of BB support from her slow and her BB accuracy buffs as well. Her barrages are not position dependent, which is always nice to see. Ideally, she is sortied with both her self-buff skill requirements met. Overall, she is a very solid BC. Typical event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Blücher|5}}<br>[[Blücher]]
 |Blücher is a great tank-oriented CA. She has great damage output from her self-buffs, barrages, and ghost guns. She also has decent bulk from her stats and skills. Due to her damage absorption, she might not tank high-damage output bosses that well; this needs more testing. Overall, she is a very solid tank. Typical event SR.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Z16|4}}<br>[[Z16]]
 |Z16 is a mixed bag. Her stats are not high, and 1 Main Gun with subpar barrages makes her damage output meh. She boosts her AP gun damage, but has low base FP. She gains the Torpedo spread reduction Limit Break benefit, but has subpar torpedos. Her mines are a neat gimmick, but are practically useless in standard gameplay. Overall, she is collection only. Gives +1 DD FP Fleet Technology.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Charles Ausburne|5||Kai}}<br>[[Charles Ausburne|Charles Ausburne (Retrofit)]]
 |The retrofit improved her from bad to mediocre. Since Beaver Squadron Tag is wasted on DDs compared to tank cruisers, all aspects requiring it are practically useless. Her damage got buffed, and she gained a new barrage, but it still doesn't make her better than starter retrofits. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Anchorage|5}}<br>[[Anchorage|Anchorage (FS5)]]
 |FS5 slightly more than doubles her skill barrage damage output, and gives her 15 luck for slightly more tankiness. Overall, she remains the gold standard for tank CAs, with higher damage output.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|August von Parseval|5}}<br>[[August von Parseval|August von Parseval (FS5)]]
 |FS5 gives her a 100% guarenteed time stop, and increases it's duration. This makes her the premier slow/stop support against Light and Medium armor bosses.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Marco Polo|5}}<br>[[Marco Polo|Marco Polo (FS5)]]
 |FS5 removes her Italian ship requirement, increases her Main Gun, AA, and Barrage damage output, and also increases the Barrage activation chance to 85%. All this combined makes Marco Polo a top Flagship BB for Mobbing and non-Heavy armor bosses.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Renown META|5}}<br>[[Renown META]]
 |Renown META is a great mobbing-oriented off-flag BC with solid stats. Her barrages have a nice pattern but are pretty underwhelming in base power. Due to her skill, she effectively gets a free salvo compared to the average BB/BC, which is always nice. Shields for the vanguard are always welcome as well. Overall, she seems solid; nothing exceptional but not bad either.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Musashi|6}}<br>[[Musashi]]
 |Musashi is an off-flag capable BB with top tier damage and bulk. She has a guaranteed barrage on main gun fire, a variety of very strong self-buffs, and a crossfleet barrage to boot. She still prefers flagship due to barrage pattern, but can work off-flag. For the IJN Main Gun requirement, the best options are the Twin 410mm Kai (HE, no syncing),  the Triple 460mm (AP, no syncing), or Triple 410mm (AP, syncing). The enhanced barrage is a sizable upgrade, but since Musashi overkills most content in a good fleet regardless, it's fine to ignore it. For the IJN gear requirement, use the Type 1 AP Shell as an Auxilary. Overall, Musashi is amazing, and is highly worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Sakawa|5}}<br>[[Sakawa]]
 |Sakawa is a torpedo-oriented CL, best used as an off-tank/Mob main-tank. While she only has 1 MGM, her 2 barrages help keep her damage at respectable levels. She also has great bulk, and great potential to increase both her bulk and damage as the battle drags on. Overall, she is solid; nothing spectacular but not awful either.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Wakatsuki|5}}<br>[[Wakatsuki]]
 |Wakatsuki is a hybrid-oriented DD best used as a middle-position damage dealer. She has solid stats with multiple barrages and MGM+1, which give her great bullet spam. She also has a secondary built-in ASW mount, which is nice in submarine-heavy areas but useless outside of that. Ignore the Akizuki-class sortie buff when using her, it is not needed at all for her to be good. Overall, she is solid; one of the best DDs currently.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Haguro|4}}<br>[[Haguro]]
 |Haguro is a tank-oriented CA best used as a main tank. She has good enough HP, which coupled with her great Luck and Evasion (which can get boosted further from her torpedoes!) gives her high bulk. She also has a self-heal when the skill barrage activation fails. Her barrages and MGM are very mediocre for the role, however. Overall, she is a great pure tank, but has bad damage output for the role.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Miyuki|4}}<br>[[Miyuki]]
 |Miyuki is a torpedo-oriented DD with meh stats compared to other ships in her role. Her guns and AA aren't good, and her torpedoes and skills are not good enough to make her noticable. In particular, ramming and evasion reliant skills are huge gimmicks for low HP ships like Miyuki. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Juneau|4||Kai}}<br>[[Juneau|Juneau (Retrofit)]]
 |Juneau (Retrofit) is an AA-oriented CL with surprisingly decent damage on the side. The retrofit doubled her surface damage output, while also increasing her AA capabilities further. She is now vastly more viable in PvE than before. Overall, she is great as an AA ship, with decent damage to go along with it.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Shropshire|4||Kai}}<br>[[Shropshire|Shropshire (Retrofit)]]
 |Shropshire (retrofit) is a damage-oriented CA best used as a middle-position damage dealer. The retrofit improved her damage drastically, giving her a London Retrofit-esque slot 2 and a vanguard-wide support skill. However, her bulk still remains especially frail, which can be a concern on certain stages. Overall, she is a solid option; nothing special, but not bad either.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Noshiro|5}}<br>[[Noshiro]]
 |Noshiro is a mob-tank oriented CL with solid stats and great skills. Her personal damage (Main gun + Torpedo + Barrage) is solid. Her blue skill improves her survivability, and her yellow skill provides one of the best torpedo buffs to your fleet. Overall, she is a solid option, best used as a torpedo-buffer.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Ryuuhou|5}}<br>[[Ryuuhou]]
 |Ryuuhou is a healer CVL with meh damage. Compared to Perseus and Unicorn (Retrofit), Ryuuhou is better when healing a single-target, but worse at fleet-wide healing. Also compared to Perseus and Unicorn, she doesn't have a preload. Just use Unicorn (Retrofit) and don't look back :).
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Suruga|4}}<br>[[Suruga]]
 |Suruga is a flagship BB with average stats, skills, barrage, and efficiencies. Her timed barrage means that her damage output is staggered. The barrage isn't special due to its pattern and subpar base damage. Overall, she is average, especially in the current landscape of BBs from research and recent new events.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kazagumo|5}}<br>[[Kazagumo]]
 |Kazagumo is a great torpedo-oriented DD best used as a CV buffer. She prefers to use a fast main gun to get as many All-out-Assault activations as possible. Overall, she is great.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kinu|5||Kai}}<br>[[Kinu|Kinu (Retrofit)]]
 |Kinu (Retrofit) is an alright damage-oriented CL, with solid stats and efficiencies. Skills also buff her damage output nicely. Overall, not the best, but certainly not the worst.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kasumi|5||Kai}}<br>[[Kasumi|Kasumi (Retrofit)]]
 |Kasumi (Retrofit) is an alright torpedo-oriented DD, who is best used as a torpedo buffer for IJN ships. She has decent damage from her barrages and torpedoes. Only use when buffing IJN ships in a torpedo-oriented fleet.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hibiki|4}}<br>[[Hibiki]]
 |Hibiki doesn't have any relevant stat buffs from her skills to make up for her subpar base stats, and her self heal doesn't add much to her bulk. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Shirayuki|4}}<br>[[Shirayuki]]
 |Shirayuki has FP and TRP boosts from skills, but stats and efficiencies are underwhelming compared to others. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Albion|5}}<br>[[Albion]]
 |Albion is a damage-oriented CVL with great stats and skills.<br>'''Positives''': Her damage per strike is very high, due to both her loadout being good and the barrage being amazing. Her debuff is great as well, although targetting can be a bit wack against multiple enemies. In addition, she helps keep herself and other main fleet ships hidden, and reduces their burn damage, which is always nice.<br>'''Negatives''': The ASW part of her skill is situational at best, and so is the overhealing shield.<br>'''Verdict''': Above average damage-oriented CV; not top-tier but certainly very good.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Janus|5}}<br>[[Janus]]
 |Janus is a damage-dealer oriented DD with great stats and barrages, but average skills.<br>'''Positives''': Skill 2 is amazing, and when coupled with her stats and amazing barrages make her damage output (both direct and indirect) on the higher end for DDs.<br>'''Negatives''': Only 1 Main Gun Mount hinders damage output a bit. Skill requirements ruin fleetbuilding. The shield benefit is nice but requires 2 other HMS ships in the fleet, and the self buff requires her sister, which is impractical in most cases.<br>'''Verdict''': Above average DD; starter level or better.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Royal Fortune|5}}<br>[[Royal Fortune]]
 |Royal Fortune is a Frigate (basically Submarine), that surfaces instantly and shoots guns at enemies instead of staying underwater and shooting torpedoes like normal Submarines.<br>'''Positives''': Assuming she is on the field for the full 60s duration, her damage on paper vs Light/Med enemies is really strong/comparable to traditional Submarines (especially in the first 30s), and extra support in the form of the slow is always nice to see.<br>'''Negatives''': Her damage against heavy armor is very mediocre/bad compared to traditional Submarines. Her bulk is also on the lower side, so how long she stays on the field in practice is to be determined.<br>'''Verdict''': Top non-faction dependent submarine.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Manchester|4}}<br>[[Manchester]]
 |Manchester is a damage-oriented CL with average FP, bad Torpedoes, and good skills.<br>'''Positives''': Both her skills are very good; boosting her self damage and faster torpedoes are great.<br>'''Negatives''': Her personal damage is lackluster due to a mediocre AoA and only 1 CL Main Gun Mount. The Torpedo stat is so bad that it doesn't make up for the lack of bullet damage.<br>'''Verdict''': Waifu only.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Fortune META|4}}<br>[[Fortune META]]
 |Fortune META is a damage-dealer oriented DD with bad stats, middling skills, middling barrages, only 1 MGM. Collection only.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Arizona META|5}}<br>[[Arizona META]]
 |Arizona META is a damage-dealer oriented BB with great stats, proximity barrages and great support. The zone from skill 1 is decently big as well. Good BB overall.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Yorktown II|6}}<br>[[Yorktown II]]
 |Yorktown II is an amazing CV with amazing stats and skills. She has 9 planes, and great stats and efficiencies, making her damage output about equal to the other Rainbow CVs. Due to her barrages, she is best used against Light or Medium armor enemies, but still holds up very well against Heavy overall. Her support is amazing as well, with her AA resistance decrease, and additional USS CV damage buffs on top of it. Crossfleet is always nice to have as well. For the USS plane requirement, there are a lot of great options, check out a gear guide for more information. Amazing CV, highly worth getting.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Hornet II|5}}<br>[[Hornet II]]
 |Hornet II is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. There is nothing special here, it's just typical CV self-buffs and barrages, making her damage really good. She is ideally used against Light/Medium armor enemies due to her barrages. She even has a survivability bonus. Great CV, highly worth getting.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Northampton II|5}}<br>[[Northampton II]]
 |Northampton is a damage/support-oriented CA. She has enough bulk to off-tank most content. She buffs other cruisers in the same fleet (inlcuding herself), and has a 50% slow when used in a fleet that has a USS CV/CVL as flagship. In addition, MGM+1 coupled with great stats and barrages make her damage really high for a CA. Great CA, highly worth getting.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Hammann II|4}}<br>[[Hammann II]]
 |Hammann II is a support-oriented DD that has bad surface damage but more than makes up for it with utility. She has a CV damage buff, flagship protection, and high enough AA to keep CVs hidden most of the time. She even has a special ASW mount to buff her damage there. Bad surface damage drags her down, along with subpar bulk. Great CV buffer.
 |- 
 |{{IconHover|Langley II|4}}<br>[[Langley II]]
 |Langley II is a support-oriented CVL that has decent damage and great support. Due to her personal damage being mediocre, she is most likely not worth using over other damage options, despite the CV support. Decent, but you probably have something better.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kuybyshev|5}}<br>[[Kuybyshev]]
 |Kuybyshev is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. She has MGM+1 along with multiple decent barrages, giving her great damage. She also has decent bulk, especially when paired with another SN ship. The Northern Parliament vanguard critical damage boost, while nice, is not a game-changer in practice. Great event SSR, highly worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Theseus|5}}<br>[[Theseus]]
 |Theseus is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. She has a full 8-plane CV loadout along with great plane efficiencies, giving her good damage. In addition, she also has multiple barrages, which give her good built-in damage stagger. She also buffs her own bulk, although in most cases those effects are not relevant. Typical event SSR, not amazing but not awful either.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hwah Jah|4}}<br>[[Hwah Jah]]
 |Hwa-Jah is supposed to be a damage-oriented CVL, but with 6 Seaplanes her personal damage is awful. The barrage isn't good enough to carry. Collection-only. Note: She has CV RLD+1 fleet technology at Level 120.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Ting An|4}}<br>[[Ting An]]
 |Ting An is a support-oriented AE with bad personal damage. Her stats are not very good, since her AVI is too low to do any personal damage even with barrages. In addition, her HP is too low for her to main tank. Her skill 1 buffs are very rng reliant on getting the right ones, and even then other buffers can do the job way better. Just use a ship that has high personal damage instead. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Sheffield META|4}}<br>[[Sheffield META]]
 |Sheffield META is a damage-oriented CL with a bit of support on the side. Since she only has 1 MGM, her barrages will make or break this ship. Judgement pending barrage patterns.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Yat Sen|5||Kai}}<br>[[Yat Sen]]
 |Yat Sen Retrofit is a damage-dealer oriented CL with great stats and skills. She always had enough bulk to main tank most mob content, but now that doesn't require Ning/Ping Hai. Her personal damage is vastly increased due to higher gun efficiencies and FP stat. In addition, she loses reliance on Ning/Ping Hai for her own bulk, although you still need her to buff Ning/Pings bulk in China Wall teams. Retrofit skill fires a decent barrage every 12s as well, which is decent free damage. Great improvement over base Yat Sen, and an above-average CL overall.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Friedrich der Große|6}}<br>[[Friedrich der Große|Friedrich der Große (FS5)]]
 |FS5 made all barrages centered without flagship, which gives her more versatility. In addition, it also removed the HP thresholds from skill 3 and gave her maximum bonuses from the get-go. Furthermore, she also gained an on-fire barrage that while mediocre compared to other UR BBs, is still better than most other off-flag BBs. The 25 luck helps increase her accuracy as well. Overall a great improvement to an amazing BB.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Implacable|6}}<br>[[Implacable]]
 |Implacable is a support-oriented CV with great damage and amazing skills. Her skills are confusing, but for the most part your fleet is guaranteed max stacks of "No Mercy" every airstrike, giving her great damage output. Her support freezes the enemy, which is amazing for other BBs and CVs alike to land their shots/bombs/torpedoes. The crossfleet is basically negligible for most intentd and purposes though, since the effect is only once per battle. Overall, she is an amazing ship; highly worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Royal Oak|5}}<br>[[Royal Oak]]
 |Royal Oak is a off-flag oriented BB with great stats and interesting skills. Her barrage is based upon taking damage or after 20s has passed, both of which allow her to run a shelling gun instead of a barrage gun. Her damage redirection is niche and her self heal is useless for most purposes since backline ships rarely take meaningful damage. She technically prefers flagship but is fine as an off-flag. Overall, typical event SSR. Not horrible but not top tier.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Scylla|5}}<br>[[Scylla]]
 |Scylla is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her equipment loadout is nothing to write home about, but her barrages are all very good, making her damage really high. Her supportive capabilities are all worse than existing good ships. Her AA is above average. Overall, highly worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Argus|4}}<br>[[Argus]]
 |Argus is a support-oriented CVL with average stats but amazing skills. She buffs carriers inside and outside of the fleet, and has a self airstrike cooldown reduction for damage desyncing. Her personal damage is very mediocre however, especially if the barrage does not proc. Solid ship all around.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hero|4}}<br>[[Hero]]
 |Hero attempts to be a damage-oriented DD but has terrible stats. The skill are nice, especially the barrages (either of them), but it's not enough to get her over the hump. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Queen Elizabeth META|5}}<br>[[Queen Elizabeth META]]
 |Queen Elizabeth META is an off-flag damage-oriented BB with good stats and skills. Her shelling damage is average, but her barrages more than make up for it. The marking for META/HMS ships is pointless, and so is the random META ship in the fleet dealing more damage. You can sortie her with other META ships to get all her buffs, but that is not necessary for her to be viable. Overall, she is a great BB.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kursk|5}}<br>[[Kursk]]
 |Kursk is a damage-oriented CA with decent stats and very unique skills. Her damage is above average, but nothing exceptional. The AoA is decent, the bombs are also decent, and the special submarines fire a decent number of torpedoes, all giving her great damage alongside the MGM+1 main gun. Overall, she is a great CA.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Voroshilov|5}}<br>[[Voroshilov]]
 |Voroshilov is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her special secondary gun is really good, and mostly compensates for her lack of a 2nd MGM. Her barrages are also really good, and her bulk is excellent to boot. Her Frozen debuff is nice, but not needed for her to be amazing. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Sevastopol|4}}<br>[[Sevastopol]]
 |Sevastopol is a barrage-oriented BB with meh stats and skills. Her barrage would be nice if the proc rate was higher, but 50% is too rng to be reliable. In addition, the heal is very minor compared to using a dedicated healer (like Unicorn). Overall, she is collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|La Galissonnière META|4}}<br>[[La Galissonnière META]]
 |La Galissonnière META is a damage-oriented CL with decent stats and skills. Her damage seems decent despite only 1 MGM due to her barrage, but it is nothing exceptional. Her bulk is also very average for a CL. Overall, she's meh.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Little Formidable|4}}<br>[[Little Formidable]]
 |Little Formidable is worse than easily acquirable better ships at her role. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Bismarck Zwei|6}}<br>[[Bismarck Zwei]]
 |Bismarck Zwei is an amazing damage-oriented BB. Her skill 1 gives her great self buffs, along with a barrage that is able to take advantage of the zone it creates. Her skill 2, especially the Release part, gives her a summon that does great, consistent, damage to enemies on the field. Her crossfleet skill is decent, but KMS CVs aren't good enough yet to make a KMS CV fleet worthwhile. Overall, she is an amazing BB; highly worth getting.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Regensburg|5}}<br>[[Regensburg]]
 |Regensburg is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and interesting skills. Her skills incentivize her being in a KMS fleet, which is suboptimal. In addition, her skill locks on to enemies every 15s, which doesn't sync well with current options. Furthermore, her skills give her more bonuses if there is a locked on enemy alive at the time of activation, which is unreliable outside of bossing. Her barrages are pretty good, but only 1 MGM hurts her damage. Overall, she is a good CL.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Otto von Alvensleben|5}}<br>[[Otto von Alvensleben]]
 |Otto von Alvensleben is a mob-tank oriented DD with great damage and skills. Her skill 1 gives her a great barrage every 15s, which is where the majority of her damage comes from. Her skill 2 greately increases her bulk along with the 30% auxiliary stat boost from max limit-break. Despite the AoA reduction when using a CL gun, a DD gun will be better the majority of the time. Overall, she is a great DD.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|U-556 META|5}}<br>[[U-556 META]]
 |U-556 META is an amazing damage-dealer SS with great stats and skills. Her stats are pretty typical for an SSR SS. She gets torpedo crit rate and self torpedo buffs from her skills, further boosting her damage. In addition, her skill 3 allows her to spam a torpedo barrage, albeit a weak one. You do NOT need Bismarck / Bismarck Zwei in the fleet for her to be viable. Overall, she is an amazing SS.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Jade|4}}<br>[[Jade]]
 |Jade is a damage-oriented CVL that has meh damage and stats. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Nelson|5||Kai}}<br>[[Nelson|Nelson (Retrofit)]]
 |Nelson Retrofit is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. She gains 15% more main gun efficiency, bringing her gun damage up to par with other SSR BBs. Her barrage proc rate also increases to 100%, although it still suffers the same issues as the original Big Seven (not arcing, not as single-target oriented). The single target barrage is decent, but nothing amazing. Overall, she is a great ship; one of the best easily acquirable BBs for new players.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Vestal META|4}}<br>[[Vestal META]]
 |The opportunity cost of using Vestal META over any other easily-acquirable backline ship is not worth it, due to her support not being that worthwhile and her damage being lackluster. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Taihou-chan|4}}<br>[[Taihou-chan]]
 |Taihou-chan is a damage oriented CV with average stats and great skills. Her stats are lower than other good CVs due to being elite rarity, but they are still good enough. Her skills give her a self AVI boost, as well as a timed barrage and main fleet support. Overall, she is a good CV.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Algérie_META|5}}<br>[[Algérie_META]]
 |Algerie META is a damage-oriented CA with great stats and interesting skills. Since she only has 1 MGM, her damage is average at best. Her skills are also decent, with barrages and burns, but they are unreliable and don't improve her damage that much. Overall, she is an average CA.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Attilio Regolo|5}}<br>[[Attilio Regolo]]
 |Regolo is a damage-oriented DD with great stats and skills. She has MGM+1 with AoA reduction, making her gun damage pretty good. In addition, her skill 1 further adds on to her gun damage. Improving the proc chance of her skill 2  by using RN ships is not relevant to her viability. Her AoA is also pretty good. Overall, she is a great DD.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Gorizia|5}}<br>[[Gorizia]]
 |Goriza is a mob-tank/damage-oriented CA with great stats and and skills. Her main gun damage is pretty solid since she has MGM+1 with good FP. She is ideally sortied with an RN equipment to improve the proc chance of her skill 1 barrage. Her skill 2 also adds to her bulk a bit. Overall, she is a great CA.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Andrea Doria|4}}<br>[[Andrea Doria]]
 |Doria is a flagship-oriented BB with meh stats and skills. Her barrage proc chance is only 50%, which is not good. Her supportive capabilities do not justify using her over other easily accessible BB options. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kearsarge|6}}<br>[[Kearsarge]]
 |Kearsarge is a off-flag oriented BB with amazing stats and skills. She has amazing damage output with her BB guns, planes, and stat buffs. Her slow reload is concerning, but its impact on her viability is to be determined. Her special secondary guns are awful for interception, but are better than not having them at all. Needs further testing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hindenburg|6}}<br>[[Hindenburg]]
 |Hindenburg is a damage-oriented CA with amazing stats and skills. She has enough bulk to mob-tank in a pinch, but it is not recommended for her to tank over other good options. Her damage output is among the best in the game for vanguard ships due to multiple main gun mounts, as well as her shield-ignoring ability from her skills. Needs further testing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Felix Schultz|5}}<br>[[Felix Schultz]]
 |Felix Schultz is a mob-tank oriented DD with a great combination of damage and bulk. Her bulk is great due to her high HP, 30% Auxiliary stat boosts, and her skills. Her damage is not to be scoffed at as well due to multiple barrages. Needs further testing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Shimanto|5}}<br>[[Shimanto]]
 |Shimanto is a damage-oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her damage is great with MGM+1, double torpedo reloads, and multiple barrages. Her AA is also really good; using her gun to proc her skill is not recommended. Needs further testing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Flandre|5}}<br>[[Flandre]]
 |Flandre is an amazing off-flag oriented BB with great stats, skills, and a preloaded main gun to boot. Needs further testing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Marseillaise|5}}<br>[[Marseillaise]]
 |Marseillaise is a mob-tank oriented CL with good stats and great skills. Her stats are pretty average for a gold CL, but her skills give her a lot of bulk to make up for it. Her damage is alright due to her barrages but only 1 MGM hurts. She also buffs French ships in the same fleet, however there aren't enough French ships currently to make this worthwhile. Overall she is a great CL, especially given that she is free for everyone!
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Clemenceau|5}}<br>[[Clemenceau]]
 |Clemenceau is an off-flag damage-oriented BB with great stats and skills. She trades 1 Main Gun Mount for a preloaded shot, which is nice for short fights, but hinders her damage output in longer fights. She is ideally sortied with French equipment in order to increase her barrage proc rate. Her self buffs from having French ships in the fleet are not worth building around. Overall, she is a good BB.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Guichen|5}}<br>[[Guichen]]
 |Guichen is a mob-tank oriented CL with great stats and skills. Her damage is above average for a 1 MGM CL due to a good AoA which ignores shields and pierces, as well as her Skill 1. Her bulk is good enough to mob-tank, but not good enough against bosses. Her stop is not worth building a fleet around. Overall, she is a good CL.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Painlevé|5}}<br>[[Painlevé]]
 |Painleve is a healer-oriented CV with great stats and skills. Her skill 1 is great support for your fleet regardless of which version is triggered. Her skill 2 heals both herself and the vanguard a good amount, but 5s after an airstrike is fired might be too slow for some fleet compositions. Compared to other healers, having 8 planes is a huge benefit to her own personal damage. Overall she is a great CV. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kersaint|4}}<br>[[Kersaint]]
 |Kersaint is a damage-oriented DD with bad stats and skills. Her skill is alright, but the heal is useless and the other two are useless when her base damage is already really low. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Lyon|4}}<br>[[Lyon]]
 |Lyon is a damage-oriented BB with meh stats and skills. Her Main Gun damage is meh, and her barrage is only a 50% proc rate making her average damage even worse. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Suffren|4}}<br>[[Suffren]]
 |Suffren is a damage-oriented CA with meh stats and skills. Her skills boost her damage by a decent bit, however her base damage is so low with only 1 MGM and low torpedo stats that it doesn't really make a difference. Her bulk is also not good enough to act as a tank for neither a boss nor mob fleet. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|West Virginia|5||Kai}}<br>[[West Virginia]] (Retrofit)
 |West Virgina is a flagship damage-oriented BB with great stats and good skills. Her barrage is only a 70% proc rate, which is not ideal; however her shelling damage is above average to make up for it. She is ideally sortied with another BB/BC to enhance both her barrage and supportive capabilities as well. Overall, she is a good BB option. 
 |-
|}

=== Collaboration Ships ===
{|class="azltable sortable mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:100%; text-align:center"
 |+ Samvaluation for Collaboration Ships
 ! style="width:15%"|Ship
 ! class="unsortable"|Samvaluation
 |-

<!-- Atelier Ryza Collaboration -->
 |{{IconHover|Reisalin Stout|5}}<br>[[Reisalin Stout]]
 |Ryza is a damage dealer-oriented mobbing CL with amazing clearing potential within the first 30s of a battle. Her stats are very solid, and coupled with MGM+1 give her good damage output from her Main Guns. Her skills immensely buff the damage potential of all her Auxiliary barrages, and her unique Augment Module adds more barrages to the mix. You want all the Atelier Ryza Bombs equipped on Ryza, due to the +20% crit rate buff to by barrages when equipped by her for applying "Item Mark" to enemies, and for the "Fatal Drive" unique Augment Module barrage. After all her barrages are exhausted, she is painfully average. Amazing CL for mobbing.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Klaudia Valentz|5}}<br>[[Klaudia Valentz]]
 |Klaudia is a support-oriented CVL with interesting skills. The stats are average for a good CV, so no issues there. Her skills make her act like a healer, especially for Ryza ships. Her skill and augment barrages add to her damage, but compared to other 8-plane damage-oriented CVs, her damage is lacking due to only having 7-planes. Due to her heal being spread out, and having a pseudo preload (from the barrage activation at the start of the battle), and having better per-strike damage, she is an amazing support. Unicorn Retrofit is better than her regardless. Amazing Healer CVL.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Patricia Abelheim|5}}<br>[[Patricia Abelheim]]
 |Patricia is a flagship-oriented damage-dealer BB with great stats and amazing skills. Her stats are very standard for a good BB, and are buffed further through her skills. She has a very wide pattern, decent damage, guarenteed barrage every main gun shot, which is amazing for clearing potential. Great BB overall.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Kala Ideas|5}}<br>[[Kala Ideas]]
 |Kala is a tank-oriented CB with amazing bulk and decent damage. Her stats and skills make her very tanky, and her damage output is alright with MGM+1 CB guns and some barrages. The RNG element from her Augment Skill to save her from death is a nice bonus. Top non-rainbow tank option.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Lila Decyrus|4}}<br>[[Lila Decyrus]]
 |Lila is a damage-oriented CA with decent bulk but high damage potential. Her stats, skills, and Augment give her decent bulk. With enough stacks of her skills, her damage can really ramp up over time. She is ideally sortied with other Ryza ships to give her maximum damage potential. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Serri Glaus|4}}<br>[[Serri Glaus]]
 |Serri is a damage-oriented CV with average stats and average skills. As a solo-CV, her damage is decent, with an 8-plane loadout, barrage on Airstrike, and the damage dealt buffs she gains throughout the battle from skills and Augments. In an Atelier fleet, her 2nd skill can activate way more frequently, and her 3rd skill can grant more AP overall to the fleet, thus increasing her contribution by a fair bit. Inside Atelier fleet: Great CV option. Outside Atelier fleet: Meh CV option.
 |-

<!-- Dead or Alive Collaboration -->
 | {{IconHover|Marie Rose|5}}<br>[[Marie Rose]]
 |Marie Rose is a damage-oriented DD with great stats and skills. Her skill 1 has a barrage that will proc every 10s in most content, and her skill 2 buffs her torpedo damage even more. Her augment skill buffs her own damage more as well. Her additional support is nice, but is not necessary. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Honoka|5}}<br>[[Honoka]]
 |Honoka is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and interesting skills. Her skill 1 has good self-buffs; although some of the possible barrages are better than others. Her skill 2 has a nice damage 100% proc rate barrage which does good damage. The healing is unreliable, but it is a nice cushion alongside an actual healer-oriented ship. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Misaki|5}}<br>[[Misaki]]
 |Misaki is a damage-dealer oriented CL with good stats and skills. Her damage is pretty good with MGM+1 coupled with the self-buffs and augments, and her bulk is fine as well. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Kasumi|5}}<br>[[Kasumi]]
 |Kasumi is a tank-oriented CA with good stats and great skills. Her damage is below average for a tank, but her bulk is amazing to compensate. You want to use magnetic torpedoes to help proc her skill 1. Her augment greatly improves her tank ability. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Luna|5}}<br>[[Luna]]
 |Luna is a damage-oriented CVL with good stats and interesting skills. Due to her nature of being fast loaded, she is much better in mob fleets when compared to boss fleets. Only 6 total planes hurts her overall damage output, so after her first two launches her worth is reduced. Do NOT run an ASW plane in her slot 3, it is useless. Needs more testing.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Tamaki|5}}<br>[[Tamaki]]
 |Tamaki is an off-flag damage-oriented BB with great stats and skills. Her skill 1 has a nice debuff to all enemies on the field. In addition, since her secondary gun range is increased, she has more capable interception. Her barrage is aimed, and has a 100% chance to proc with her augment. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Nagisa|4}}<br>[[Nagisa]]
 |Nagisa is worse than easily acquirable good ships at her role. Collection only.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Monica|4}}<br>[[Monica]]
 |Monica is worse than easily acquirable good ships at her role. Collection only.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Nyotengu|4}}<br>[[Nyotengu]]
 |Nyotengu is worse than easily acquirable good ships at her role. Collection only.
 |-

 <!-- World Spanning Arclight -->
 |{{IconHover|Akane Shinjo|5}}
 |Akane Shinjo is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. She has multiple 100% trigger chance barrages, as well as MGM+2 and good Main Gun damgae to go alongside them. Her augment module also grants her a summon for the early part of the battle, which adds to her damage further. She ideally prefers flagship for maximum barrage impact, but she can work at a slightly worse level when off-flag. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Chise Asukagawa|5}}
 |Chise Asukagawa is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. She has great personal damage with 8 planes and good stats, as well as an on-strike barrage. She also offers additional damage and support on her 1st (preloaded!) and 3rd airstrikes, which are nice to have. The Augment interaction between her and Rikka is not worth using them together for. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Princess Hime|5}}
 |Princess Hime is a tank / support-oriented AE with great stats and skills. Her personal damage is alright due to MGM+1 DD guns and some self-buffs. Her support is really good, allowing her to equip both normal <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/List_Of_Cargo" title="Cargo">Cargo</a> and Gridman specific <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/List_Of_Cargo" title="Cargo">Cargo</a> at the same time. She also has enough bulk to Main Tank most content, however her being Light Armor leaves her a bit suspect to high damage HE bullets. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Rikka Takarada|5}}
 |Rikka Takarada is a damage-dealer oriented CL with great stats and amazing skills. She possesses multiple strong, piercing laser barrages that deal great damage against huge waves of enemies in a row; however, during her downtime her damage is pretty underwhelming. In addition, she can equip multiple Auxiliary equipment at once, although ideally 3 of those slots are the <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/Battle_Tracto_Max" title="Battle Tracto Max">Battle Tracto Max</a>, <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/Buster_Borr" title="Buster Borr">Buster Borr</a>, and Gridman Calibur to get the most barrage benefits possible. Her bulk is also good enough to mob-tank most content reliably. The Augment interaction between her and Chise / Yume is not worth using them together for. Overall, she is an amazing ships when mobbing, and a great ship outside of it.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|The 2nd|5}}
 |Nibanme is a flagship-oriented BB with great stats and skills. No aux guns hurts her interception capability, but her damage is very good, and comes from multiple sources. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Yume Minami|5}}
 |Yume Minami is a tank-oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her bulk is a bit on the lower side for a tank, but she has above average damage to make up for it. She has multiple barrages tied to both her guns and skills, giving her great damage variety. The Augment interaction between her and Rikka is not worth using them together for. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Hass|4}}
 |Hass is a damage-oriented CL with meh stats and skills. Using her to activate Rikka's skill requirement is not recommended. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Mujina|4}}
 |Mujina is a flagship-oriented BB with meh stats and good skills. Her personal damage is good due to multiple barrages upon Main Gun Fire, but the damage is unremarkable compared to good SR BBs currently available. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
 |{{IconHover|Namiko|4}}
 |Namiko is a damage-oriented CA with meh stats and skills. Using her to actiate Rikka's skill requirement is not recommended. Collection only.
 |-

 <!-- Azur Anthem -->
 | {{IconHover|Azusa Miura|5}}<br>[[s]]
 |Azusa Miura is a tank-oriented CA with great stats and skills. Her bulk is a bit on the lower side for a tank. However, she has MGM+1 CA Guns, great self-buffs, and a skill barrage to make her damage above average for a tank. She is ideally sortied with multiple other Vanguard ships to avoid the negative effect of her Skill 3. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Chihaya Kisaragi|5}}<br>[[s]]
 |Chihaya Kisaragi is a damage-oriented CV with great stats and skills. She has a first-strike cooldown reduction, allowing her to desync her damage from the rest of your Main Fleet easily. She has 8 planes, and that combined with her on-strike barrage makes her damage really good. Overall, she is a great ship.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Haruka Amami|5}}<br>[[s]]
 |Haruka Amami is a support-oriented CL with average stats and skills. Her personal damage is a bit lackluster due to only 1 MGM and the skill barrage not being enough to make up for it. Her support is also not enough to justify using her over other damage options that can kill the enemy faster. Overall, she is a good ship, but she is a sidegrade / downgrade to easily accessible options.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Iori Minase|5}}<br>[[s]]
 |Iori Minase is an off-flag damage-oriented BB with good stats and meh skills. Her stats are alright, but a lack of self-buffs hinders her damage output. Her barrage is also good, and has priority targetting. Overall, she is a good ship, but she is a sidegarde / downgrade to easily accessible options.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Ami Futami|4}}
 |Ami Futami is a damage-oriented SS with meh stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Mami Futami|4}}
 |Mami Futami is a damage-oriented SS with meh stats and skills. Collection only.
 |-
 | {{IconHover|Ritsuko Akizuki|4}}
 |Ritsuko is a support-oriented AE with good stats and skills. Her personal damage is decent due to her high FP stat, and she can equip <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://azurlane.koumakan.jp/wiki/List_Of_Cargo" title="Cargo">Cargo</a> gear to offer fleet support. Overall, she is a good ship.
 |-
|}

== Augment Modules ==
{{See also|Augmentation}}

{|class="azltable sortable mw-collapsible" style="width:100%; text-align:center"
 |+ Samvaluation for Augment Modules
 ! style="width:15%"|Augment Module
 ! class="unsortable"|Samvaluation
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Huggy Pillow of Bravery|Laffey}}<br>[[Huggy Pillow of Bravery]]
 |Laffey Kai got a huge upgrade. The slow is not relevant, and the heal and stat buffs give her a sizable boost to her viability.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Lucky Ship's "Punishers"|Prinz Eugen}}<br>[[Lucky Ship's "Punishers"]]
 |She just gained more bulk, to add to her reputation of being a sponge. Armor break is decent support, but it doesn't increase her use case.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Afternoon of Surging Elegance|Belfast}}<br>[[Afternoon of Surging Elegance]]
 |She situationally gained more damage and situationally gained more bulk. Nothing amazing, but it's still a decent benefit. Free damage is free damage after all.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|No More Tears|Arizona}}<br>[[No More Tears]]
 |Added to her healing, but despite 1 guarenteed heal (even if it is quite a bit of health) the rest of her healing is too RNG. More damage through barrage is always nice, but I don't see her being a true healer.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Hydrophone Calibration Device|I-58}}<br>[[Hydrophone Calibration Device]]
 |The IJN buff is nice, but not important; the optimal USS and KMS fleets are still better. For new players, a sub fleet of i-58, Albacore (Merit Shop), and Cavalla (Ashen D3) is easily accessible without building, and pretty solid. If you don't already have 2 gold KMS subs, or Archerfish, this is the next best thing.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Templar Knight's Battle Standard|Jean Bart}}<br>[[Templar Knight's Battle Standard]]
 |This doesn't change anything noteworthy about Jean Bart. All she gets is a decent barrage every 20 seconds. There's nothing amazing, but free damage and stats are always welcome.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Punctual Glory|Glorious}}<br>[[Punctual Glory]]
 |Glorious gained a 20% cooldown reduction on her first airstrike, which mitigates her slow reload somewhat. Even with 20% more efficiency, her self damage is still mediocre due to her stats and her 7 plane loadout. Overall, it improved her a fair amount, but she is still worse than most SR CVs.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Carabinier's Honored Hallmark|Carabiniere}}<br>[[Carabinier's Honored Hallmark]]
 |Her augment guarantees the skill activation, and adds a barrage. It's a decent upgrade, but it doesn't make her comparable to the starter retrofits. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Concentrated Beam-Type Assault Rigging NT|Graf Zeppelin}}<br>[[Concentrated Beam-Type Assault Rigging NT]]
 |Her augment adds a carpet-bomb style barrage to her airstrike, improving her clearing capabilities. It is also offset from her airstrike, giving her better mobbing potential. Overall, it's a great improvement.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Type-35 "Ayanami" Anti-Ship Armament|Ayanami}}<br>[[Type-35 "Ayanami" Anti-Ship Armament]]
 |Her torpedoes got buffed drastically. Now she is amazing for torpedo damage on manual, but still susceptible to being too Torpedo-reliant on auto. Generally, Shimakaze is still better in torpedo-oriented fleets despite this. But overall, the augment is a sizable upgrade to Ayanami's damage output.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Night Princess' Caprice|Vampire}}<br>[[Night Princess' Caprice]]
 |Since the upgrade is minimal healing on barrage torpedoes that, despite being aimed, fire too slowly, this is mostly irrelevant. Vampire personal damage still sucks despite the augment. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Storm-Breaking Fist?|Karlsruhe}}<br>[[Storm-Breaking Fist?]]
 |3 more slash attacks every 20s is not something that brings up a ship much, if at all, due to how small of an impact slash attacks have. Karlsruhe personal damage still sucks despite the augment. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Just Like Cleve|Montpelier}}<br>[[Just Like Cleve]]
 |The negative part of her AA-mode skill got negated, and she gains more surface damage, AA damage, and bulk on top of that. For the USS gear, equip a [[Improved Hydraulic Rudder|High Performance Hydraulic Steering Gear]]. Great upgrade all-around.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|For Love and Peace|Illustrious}}<br>[[For Love and Peace]]
 |Her support got even better, with the heal if the shield breaks, the damage resistance after the first airstrike launch, and more damage from the barrage. Great upgrade all-around.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|1-Cent Coins|U-557}}<br>[[1-Cent Coins]]
 |This augment trades damage potential for consistency when compared to [[Dagger]]. Not high priority to craft.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Pirozhki|Avrora}}<br>[[Pirozhki]]
 |Her self damage is still pretty bad, so the augment, while being an improvement, doesn't change her role in a fleet (damage amplifier).
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Tem and Opie|Le Téméraire}}<br>[[Tem and Opie]]
 |This barrage is not that amazing, therefore the augment doesn't improve her much at all from before. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Majestic Phoenix|Taihou}}<br>[[Majestic Phoenix]]
 |This is a sizable upgrade over normal Taihou. Increased slot efficiency and the augment stats are nice enough on it's own, but guaranteeing 2 barrages instead of 1 like before makes her far more consistent as a damage dealer option.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Dame's Medal of Grace|Hood}}<br>[[Dame's Medal of Grace]]
 |This makes Hood way more competitive with the upper echelon of BB/BCs, especially with improved barrage modifiers. Definitely an improvement worth getting.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Prank-of-the-Day!|Albacore}}<br>[[Prank-of-the-Day!]]
 |Has better stats than the Dagger, with the same augment base effect of +10% Torpedo Crit Rate, and more barrages on top of that. This is a solid upgrade over the original Albacore, but it is not that significant in the grand scheme of things.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Custom-made Companion Rigging - Raubtier|Z23}}<br>[[Custom-made Companion Rigging - Raubtier]]
 |The extra main gun efficiency and bulk is nice, but everything else remains the same. Still a worthwhile improvement over base Z23, however.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|The General's Battlecoat|Wichita}}<br>[[The General's Battlecoat]]
 |She becomes slightly more bulkier, but is still frail overall. Her damage output is also slightly increased due to barrages. Her role doesn't change, but improvement is improvement nontheless.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Delicious Nagara-class Nabemono|Nagara}}<br>[[Delicious Nagara-class Nabemono]]
 |This augment is better than the existing Elite Rarity CL augments, but Nagara is still bad and not worth using despite this Augment. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Trayastrimsa-Heaven White Scarf|Maya}}<br>[[Trayastrimsa-Heaven White Scarf]]
 |This drastically improves Maya's viability. Her AA is now in the "above average, but still not AA carry" tier. Her personal damage got improved due to double torpedo launches, but it is still very mediocre. She is now an AA-oriented ship with meh personal damage on the side.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Sims' Playtime|Sims}}<br>[[Sims' Playtime]]
 |This augment, while an improvement over base Sims, still doesn't make Sims viable, due to the opportunity cost of using other easily-accessible good ships. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|The Complete Old Lady Kit|Conti de Cavour}}<br>[[The Complete Old Lady Kit]]
 |Conte got a sizable upgrade to be less bad, but she is still below average. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Full Burst Javelin|Javelin}}<br>[[Full Burst Javelin]]
 |This augment increases Javelin's personal damage by a decent bit. While the barrages don't do much damage, they have a faster fire rate to compensate, and have priority targetting. Overall, brings her up to par with other starters.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Floaty Sparkly|Kagerou}}<br>[[Floaty Sparkly]]
 |This brings Kagerou up to be near the top of vanguard Torpedo buffers. Jintsuu is still better for DD/CL, however.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Hunter's Insignia|Minneapolis}}<br>[[Hunter's Insignia]]
 |This Augment only adds extra fleet healing, which is nice but its really small. Accuracy upgrades are not relevant when mobbing. Sidegrade to Greatsword at best.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Lonely Queen's Flag|Tirpitz}}<br>[[Lonely Queen's Flag]]
 |The Augment is a nice statstick. When paired with Bismarck, Tirpitz now gets +70% damage dealt, which is a very sizable upgrade. She is still average with Bismarck. Outside of this, Tirpitz's viability doesn't change at all.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Another Precious Thing|Edinburgh}}<br>[[Another Precious Thing]]
 |This augment is an improvement over the purple augments, but Edinburgh's place in the metagame has not changed. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Fantastic Loop|Émile Bertin}}<br>[[Fantastic Loop]]
 |This augment is an improvement over the purple augments, but Emile's place in the metagame has not changed. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Calculations Complete!|Gneisenau}}<br>[[Calculations Complete!]]
 |This augment, while being an improvement over the default augments, does not improve her enough to be viable over other commonly available BB/BC options.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|The Guardian's Bestowed Sword|Kawakaze}}<br>[[The Guardian's Bestowed Sword]]
 |This augment is a great improvement to normal Kawakaze, and makes her less torpedo reliant. It also brings her total damage output up quite a bit as well.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Incanto|Littorio}}<br>[[Incanto]]
 |This augment makes her better than before, but the enhanced barrage is nothing special in today's time, even with a 75% proc chance. Better than existing augments, but overall Littorio remains average.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|What Once Was Her World|Z46}}<br>[[What Once Was Her World]]
 |This augment is a sizable upgrade to her personal damage due to all the extra buffs associated with using an AP gun. Better than existing augments, and makes Z46 more comparable with the upper echelon of DDs.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Sister Sara's Magic Wand!|Saratoga}}<br>[[Sister Sara's Magic Wand!]]
 |This augment is a sizable buff to her personal damage, and also makes that damage more spread out due to the damage being added to the 10s timed barrage. Better than existing augments, and makes Saratoga more comparable with the upper echelon of CVs.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Magie de l'Amitié|L'Opiniâtre}}<br>[[Magie de l'Amitié]]
 |This augment, while being an improvement over the default augments, does not improve her enough to be viable over other commonly available ships. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Mutsuki's Candy!|Mutsuki}}<br>[[Mutsuki's Candy!]]
 |This augment, while being an improvement over the default augments, does not improve her enough to be viable over other commonly available ships. Collection only.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|A Royal Knight's Pride|Prince of Wales}}<br>[[A Royal Knight's Pride]]
 |Her skill now affects HMS ships as well, which is a very nice bonus. However, for pure faction buffing, QE is still better for HMS ships. Overall, better than purple augments, but still doesn't change her role in a fleet.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Houston's Liftoff|Houston}}<br>[[Houston's Liftoff]]
 |This augment makes her tankier, and adds a decent barrage to go along with it. Overall, better than purple augments, but still doesn't improve her enough to make her viable.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Bludgeon of Faith|Algérie}}<br>[[Bludgeon of Faith]]
 |This augment is a very good improvement over normal Algerie since her barrage is actually decent. She is still pretty average, but she definitely got closer to the upper echelon of damage CAs. 
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|Surcouf's Sunday|Surcouf}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This augment is better than existing purple augments, but due to how frail submarines are, and how enemies aren't always in range of sub guns, this augment does not make her good enough to be worth using. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|a|South Dakota}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This Augment increases her and the Main Fleet's bulk, but since her personal damage is basically uneffected and the Main Fleet rarely takes a lot of meaningful damage she is still bad. The Augment equipment skill is also worse, since its activation is conditional on her own HP. Collection only. 
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|d|Z2}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This augment makes her damage more stronger earlier into the battle, which helps with mobbing purposes. Overall, this is better than existing purple augments, but doesn't change Z2's role in a fleet.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|a|U-47}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This augment just adds an additional barrage. Overall, this is better than purple options, but not a huge upgrade overall.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|as|Suffolk}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This augment drastically improves her damage relative to her base form, but Double Gun is still unpredictable, and her bulk is still frail even with the heal. Overal, this is better than purple augments, and brings up Suffolk's viability.
 |-
 |{{EquipIcon|asd|Mogami}}<br>[[Surcouf's Sunday]]
 |This augment improves her bulk due to the barrier and +EVA from the Augment. Her personal damage also slightly increased due to the barrage added. Overall, this is better than purple augments, and brings Mogami closer to the upper echelon of SR CAs.
 |-
|}


== Changelog ==
* 9/7/23 - Added Augment Modules from 9/7 update.
* 8/20/23 - Added [[Marseillaise]], and [[The Fool's Scales]] ships.
* 8/16/23 - Added Augments from 8/10 Update
* 7/30/23 - Added PR5 Ships, Augments from 7/13 Update
* 6/25/23 - Added [[Algérie META]], new unqiue Augments from the 6/15 update; fixed some rarity colors 
* 6/7/23 - Added [[Confluence of Nothingness]] ships + Nelson Retrofit + Vestal META + Taihou-chan
* 4/27/23 - Added [[Venus Vacation|Dead or Alive]] Collab Ships + Lil Formi
* 4/16/23 - Added [[Frostfall]] ships, Edinburgh & Emile Augments
* 3/23/23 - Added Minneapolis, Tirpitz, Javelin, Kagerou, Conti de Cavour Augments. 
* 3/12/23 - Added QE META, [[Revelations of Dust]] ships, Maya/Sims Augment.
* 1/28/23 - Added [[Winter Pathfinder]] Ships, Yat Sen Retrofit, FDG FS5, Sheffield META.
* 12/29/22 - Added Ryza Collab ships + Fortune META, Arizona META update, 12/15 Augment update, [[Parallel Superimposition]] ships.
* 11/19/22 - Added Taihou and Le Tem new Augments. 
* 11/2/22 - Added Little Spee, new Augments, Fight On Royal Maids part 3 ships. 
* 10/12/22 - Added [[Swirling Cherry Blossoms]] Ships.
* 10/12/22 - Created page by collecting all the Samvaluations from datamines. 


==Credits==
Written by samheart564#4031. If there are any questions, DM me on Discord or ask in various AL-Help Channels.
